Add three ticdc solution docs (#8241)
pingcap/docs: replicate-betwwen-primary-and-secondary-clusters.md

---
title: Replicate data between primary and secondary clusters
summary: Learn how to replicate data from a primary cluster to a secondary cluster.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/incremental-replication-between-clusters/']
---

# Replicate data between primary and secondary clusters

This document describes how to configure a TiDB primary (upstream) cluster and a TiDB or MySQL secondary (downstream) cluster, and replicate incremental data from the primary cluster to the secondary cluster. The process includes the following steps:

> - Configure a TiDB primary cluster and a TiDB or MySQL secondary cluster.
> - Replicate incremental data from the primary cluster to the secondary cluster.
> - Recover data consistently by using Redo log when the primary cluster is down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure a TiDB primary cluster and a TiDB or MySQL secondary cluster.
2. Replicate incremental data from the primary cluster to the secondary cluster.
3. Recover data consistently by using Redo log when the primary cluster is down.
```

> To replicate incremental data from a running  TiDB cluster to its secondary cluster, you can use Backup & Restore [BR](/br/backup-and-restore-tool.md) and [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To replicate incremental data from a running TiDB cluster to its secondary cluster, you can use Backup & Restore [BR](/br/backup-and-restore-tool.md) and [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md).
```

## Step 1. Set the environment

1. Deploy TiDB clusters.

    Deploy two TiDB clusters, one upstream and the other downstream by using tiup playground. For production environments, deploy the clusters by referring to [Deploy and Maintain an Online TiDB Cluster Using TiUP](/tiup/tiup-cluster.md).

    In this document, we deploy the two clusters on two machines:

    - Node A: 172.16.6.123, for deploying the upstream TiDB cluster

    - Node B: 172.16.6.124, for deploying the downstream TiDB cluster

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    # Create the upstream cluster on Node A
    tiup --tag upstream playground --host 0.0.0.0 --db 1 --pd 1 --kv 1 --tiflash 0 --ticdc 1
    # Create the downstream cluster on Node B
    tiup --tag downstream playground --host 0.0.0.0 --db 1 --pd 1 --kv 1 --tiflash 0 --ticdc 0
    # View cluster status
    tiup status
    ```

2. Initialize data.

>     By default, test databases are created in the newly deployed clusters. Therefore, you can use sysbench to generate test data and simulate data in real scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By default, test databases are created in the newly deployed clusters. Therefore, you can use [sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench#linux) to generate test data and simulate data in real scenarios.
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    mysql-host=172.16.6.122 # Replace it with the IP address of your upstream cluster
    mysql-port=4000
    mysql-user=root
    mysql-password=
    db-driver=mysql         # Set database driver to MySQL
    mysql-db=test           # Set the database as a test database
    report-interval=10      # Set data collection period to 10s
    threads=10              # Set the number of worker threads to 10
    time=0                  # Set the time required for executing the script. O indicates time unlimited
    rate=100                # Set average TPS to 100
    ```

3. Simulate service workload.

    In real scenarios, service data is continuously written to the upstream cluster. In this document, we use sysbench to simulate this workload. Specifically, run the following command to enable 10 workers to continuously write data to three tables, sbtest1, sbtest2, and sbtest3, with a total TPS not exceeding 100.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    sysbench oltp_write_only --config-file=./tidb-config --tables=3 run
    ```

4. Prepare external storage.

>     In full data backup, both the upstream and downstream clusters need to access backup files. It is recommended that you use [External storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#external-storages) to store backup files. In this document, we use Minio to simulate an S3-compatible storage service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In full data backup, both the upstream and downstream clusters need to access backup files. It is recommended that you use [External storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#external-storages) to store backup files. In this example, you can use Minio to simulate an S3-compatible storage service.
```
把 we 都全文查找替换掉吧

Author: > 把 we 都全文查找替换掉吧

这个文档是示例，也就是我们操作给用户看，感觉改成 we 好像不合适。

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    wget https://dl.min.io/server/minio/release/linux-amd64/minio
    chmod +x minio
    # Configure access-key access-screct-id to access minio
    export HOST_IP='172.16.6.123' # Replace it with the IP address of your upstream cluster
    export MINIO_ROOT_USER='minio'
    export MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD='miniostorage'
    # Create the redo and backup directories. `backup` and `redo` are bucket names.
    mkdir -p data/redo
    mkdir -p data/backup
    # Start minio at port 6060
    nohup ./minio server ./data --address :6060 &
    ```

    The preceding command starts a minio server on one node to simulate S3 services. Parameters in the command are configured as follows:

    - Endpoint: `http://${HOST_IP}:6060/`
    - Access-key: `minio`
    - Secret-access-key: `miniostorage`
    - Bucket: `redo`

>     The access link is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The link is as follows:
```

    ```

    After the `BACKUP` command is executed, TiDB returns metadata about the backup data. Pay attention to `BackupTS`, because data generated before it is backed up. In this document, we use `BackupTS` as **the end of data check** and **the start of incremental migration scanning by TiCDC**.

3. Restore data.

    Run the `RESTORE` command in the downstream cluster to restore data:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    mysql> RESTORE DATABASE * FROM 's3://backup?access-key=minio&secret-access-key=miniostorage&endpoint=http://${HOST_IP}:6060&force-path-style=true';
    +----------------------+----------+--------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
    | Destination          | Size     | BackupTS           | Queue Time          | Execution Time      |
    +----------------------+----------+--------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
    | local:///tmp/backup/ | 10315858 | 431434141450371074 | 2022-02-25 20:03:59 | 2022-02-25 20:03:59 |
    +----------------------+----------+--------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
    1 row in set (41.85 sec)
    ```

4. (Optional) Check data.

>     Use [sync-diff-inspector](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md) to check data consistency between upstream and downstream data at a certain time. The preceding `BACKUP` output shows that the upstream cluster finishes backup at 431434047157698561. The preceding `RESTORE` output shows that the downstream finishes restoration at 431434141450371074.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use [sync-diff-inspector](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md) to check data consistency between upstream and downstream at a certain time. The preceding `BACKUP` output shows that the upstream cluster finishes backup at 431434047157698561. The preceding `RESTORE` output shows that the downstream finishes restoration at 431434141450371074.
```

            port = 4000
            user = "root"
            password = ""
            snapshot = "431434141450371074" # Set snapshot to the actual restore time

    ######################### Task config #########################
    [task]
            output-dir = "./output"
            source-instances = ["upstream"]
            target-instance = "downstream"
            target-check-tables = ["*.*"]
    ```

## Step 3. Migrate incremental data

1. Deploy TiCDC.

    After finishing full data migration, deploy and configure a TiCDC to replicate incremental data. In production environments, deploy TiCDC as instructed in [Deploy TiCDC](/ticdc/deploy-ticdc.md). In this document, a TiCDC node has been started upon the creation of the test clusters. Therefore, we skip the step of deploying TiCDC and proceed with changefeed configuration.

2. Create a changefeed.

    Create a changefeed configuration file `changefeed.toml`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    [consistent]
    # Consistency level, eventual means enabling consistent replication
    level = "eventual"

>     # Use S3 to store redo logs, other options are local and nfs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Use S3 to store redo logs. Other options are local and nfs.
```

    storage = "s3://redo?access-key=minio&secret-access-key=miniostorage&endpoint=http://172.16.6.125:6060&force-path-style=true"
    ```

    In the upstream cluster, run the following command to create a changefeed from the upstream to the downstream clusters:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell

>     tiup cdc  cli changefeed --sink-url "mysql://root:@172.16.6.124:4000" --config ./changefeed.toml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tiup cdc cli changefeed --sink-url "mysql://root:@172.16.6.124:4000" --config ./changefeed.toml
```

    - --pd: PD address of the upstream cluster
    - --sink-uri: URI of the downstream cluster
    - --start-ts: start timestamp of the changefeed, must be the backup time (or BackupTS mentioned in the previous step)

    For more information about the changefeed configurations, see [Task configuration file](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file).

3. Enable GC.

    In incremental migration using TiCDC, GC only removes history data that is replicated. Therefore, after creating a changefeed, you need to run the following command to enable GC. For details, see [What is the complete behavior of TiCDC garbage collection (GC) safepoint?](/ticdc/troubleshoot-ticdc.md#what-is-the-complete-behavior-of-ticdc-garbage-collection-gc-safepoint).

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    MySQL [test]> SET GLOBAL tidb_gc_enable=TRUE;
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
    MySQL [test]> SELECT @@global.tidb_gc_enable;
    +-------------------------+
    | @@global.tidb_gc_enable |
    +-------------------------+
    |                       1 |
    +-------------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

## Step 4. Simulate a disaster in the upstream cluster

> Create a disastrous event in the upstream cluster while it is running. For example, you can terminate the tiup playground process by running Ctrl+C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a disastrous event in the upstream cluster while it is running. For example, you can terminate the tiup playground process by pressing Ctrl+C.
```

## Step 5. Use redo log to ensure data consistency

> Normally, TiCDC concurrently writes transactions to downstream to increase throughout. When a changefeed is interrupted unexpectedly, the downstream may not have the latest data as it is in the upstream. To address inconsistency, we run the following command to ensure that the downstream data is consistent with the upstream data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, TiCDC concurrently writes transactions to downstream to increase throughout. When a changefeed is interrupted unexpectedly, the downstream may not have the latest data as it is in the upstream. To address inconsistency, run the following command to ensure that the downstream data is consistent with the upstream data.
```
